In this first lesson, we'll go
0:04
through the agentic workflow of Claude Code,
0:06
the tools it uses to navigate your codebase,
0:09
and the memory it keeps across sessions. Let's dive in.
0:12
So let's talk a little bit about what Claude Code actually is.
0:17
When we talk about agentic systems,
0:20
we think a lot about a model, a set of tools,
0:23
and some environment to run those tools.
0:26
Models are great at handling input and returning output.
0:30
But in many situations, those models don't know about your codebase,
0:35
how to find files, and how to handle multiple tasks.
0:39
So instead of just talking directly to a model,
0:41
we're going to provide a very lightweight harness for that model.
0:45
And through the command line, we're going to
0:48
use that harness to leverage the model's intelligence
0:51
to perform complex coding tasks.
0:53
So instead of giving a task directly to the model
0:57
and trying to find all kinds of information in a codebase.
1:00
We're going to provide a set of tools.
1:02
We're going to provide an environment
1:05
and a couple other pieces of functionality
1:08
to enable the model
1:10
to come through codebases and solve much more complex problems.
1:13
What are those pieces of functionality that we're talking about here?
1:16
Enabling the model to have memory,
1:19
enabling our model here to remember preferences of the user
1:23
and the codebase we're going through or the task at hand.
1:27
also going to give the model an environment
1:30
where it can figure out what data it needs,
1:33
formulate a plan and then take action.
1:35
With just a small amount of code,
1:37
we can leverage the model's intelligence to achieve quite remarkable results.
1:42
With Claude Code, your options
1:44
are Opus or Sonnet, depending on the complexity,
1:47
the kind of task you're handling, and your subscription.
1:50
When we talk about what Claude Code can do,
1:53
it's very tempting to just think this is the tool for
1:56
for writing lots of code. But as we progress in this course,
1:59
we're actually going to start with one of the most powerful features
2:03
of Claude Code, which is its ability
2:06
to discover, explain, and design.
2:09
Before you start writing code with Claude Code,
2:12
use it as a way to get
2:14
up to speed on a code base.
2:15
We'll talk quite a bit about writing code with Claude Code,
2:19
but we'll also talk about ways in which you can use it
2:22
outside of the terminal in environments like GitHub. We'll talk a bit
2:25
bit about refactoring, debugging errors
2:28
and where this tool really shines.
2:31
Not only is this useful for coding,
2:33
but also across data analysis and any environment
2:37
where the model's intelligence can create compelling
2:41
visualizations, assets or deliverables for you.
2:44
We mentioned that we give the model a harness.
2:47
We give the model an environment
2:49
to gather context and take an action.
2:52
We talked a bit about the
2:53
memory that we provide to the model.
2:54
And in a little bit, we'll talk
2:56
about what that underlying memory looks like.
2:58
Now, let's talk about the tools
3:01
or additional functionality that we let the model know about.
3:04
To give an illustration of tool use,
3:06
you can imagine that the user asks
3:08
what code is written in a particular file.
3:11
The model does not know how to navigate or
3:14
find files, and that's where tool use comes into play.
3:17
Out of the box, Claude Code
3:19
provides a relatively small list of
3:21
tools. One of those being the ability
3:23
to read a file. Now that the model knows what to do,
3:27
it can go ahead and read that file,
3:29
get the contents of that file,
3:31
and return the data to a user.
3:33
This ability of tool use allows the model to go
3:36
from a simple assistant to an extremely sophisticated agentic tool.
3:40
We mentioned some of the tools
3:42
that Claude Code comes built in with.
3:44
Here is a list of the tools that we have.
3:46
Some of those for editing across different kinds of files.
3:49
Some of those for reading across different files.
3:52
and some for doing additional actions
3:55
like finding patterns,
3:57
searching things across the web,
3:59
and even creating or running sub-agents
4:02
to handle very difficult and challenging tasks.
4:05
Finally, since we're in the command line,
4:07
we're going to need a tool to execute bash or shell commands.
4:12
Tool use is what allows Claude Code
4:15
to gather the context and information that it needs.
4:18
This allows Claude Code to tackle harder problems.
4:21
It also allows Claude Code
4:23
to not have to index your entire code base
4:25
and lead into potential security concerns.
4:28
Finally, Claude Code is quite extensible.
4:30
While you just saw the list of tools
4:32
that Claude Code comes built in with,
4:34
you can also add additional tools
4:36
by connecting to MCP servers.
4:39
MCP, or the model context protocol,
4:42
is an open-source model agnostic protocol
4:44
that allows for data and AI systems to communicate easily.
4:48
These MCP servers can
4:51
add functionality to Claude Code
4:53
for a variety of different tasks
4:55
and we'll explore a few of them over this course.
4:58
I want to take a little more time to
5:00
talk about what we mean by not indexing a codebase.
5:03
Instead of creating a structured representation of the codebase
5:08
and constantly analyzing that,
5:10
Claude Code instead uses a feature called agentic search.
5:13
Instead of requiring that that codebase is sent to a server
5:17
and potentially leaving the ecosystem that you're in,
5:20
Claude Code instead uses
5:22
one or many different agents and sets of tools
5:26
to find what it's looking for in your codebase.
5:29
This allows your code to not
5:31
have to be completely added to context
5:34
or to have to leave the ecosystem that it's in,
5:37
which can create certain security considerations.
5:40
When we talk about the memory of Claude or its ability
5:43
to remember what has happened in previous conversations
5:46
or across all kinds of
5:49
actions. This is done using a markdown file
5:52
called claude.md
5:54
In your claude.md file, you can define common configurations
5:58
or style guidelines.
5:59
These files get automatically loaded
6:02
into context when launched.
6:04
The conversation that you have with claude code
6:07
is stored locally on your machine.
6:09
You can clear that over the course of a conversation,
6:13
so you can start with a new context window.
6:16
But if for some reason, you need to continue
6:18
that previous one or resume the
6:20
earlier conversation, you can do so easily.
6:24
I'm going to head over to the
6:25
terminal that I have inside of VS Code.
6:28
And we can see I have a
6:29
folder here called demo with nothing in it.
6:31
So let's start by opening up Claude Code using the claude command.
6:35
Depending on where this file is, and especially the first time,
6:39
it may ask if I trust the
6:41
files in this folder, which I do.
6:43
We've gotten a couple nice tips here for getting
6:45
started, but I'm just going to start with a very simple prompt.
6:48
Make a cool visualization for me.
6:51
I'm just getting started. What we're
6:52
going to see here is Claude Code
6:54
start to make a to-do list of actions to take.
6:57
You can imagine this task might be to search across a codebase,
7:00
to edit files, to write tests, to deliver insights,
7:04
or in our case to create a visualization.
7:07
Depending on how Claude is feeling,
7:09
this might be particles or fireworks or something else,
7:11
but I just want to show you how quickly
7:13
out of the box you can
7:14
start to see changes with Claude Code.
7:16
Since we're doing this inside of Visual Studio Code
7:19
and Claude Code has an integration with that editor,
7:22
we're going to see visually the changes that are being made.
7:26
I'll accept those and in future editions,
7:28
I'll let Claude Code do that without requesting permission from me.
7:32
We can see here, we have a visualization that's built.
7:35
Let's go ahead and open it in the browser.
7:37
I'll ask Claude Code to do that for
7:39
me. It will confirm. This is the command.
7:40
Let's go see what it looks like.
7:42
And here we are with our visualization.
7:43
Can add some particles.
7:45
lookin' a bit better. You can toggle the animation,
7:48
see what's going on, and clear what we have here.
7:51
We can expand on this as much as we want.
7:53
We can change the functionality, we
7:55
can add whatever we want right here.
7:57
But I just want to show you
7:59
out of the box how seamless it is
8:01
to get up and running with this particular tool.
8:03
In the next lesson, we'll explore how
8:05
to use Claude Code across a larger codebase
8:07
and take a step back and see just how powerful it is
8:10
for explaining larger and more complex code bases.