The first example we'll work on is an end-to-end RAG chatbot.
0:06
Let's use Claude Code to explore the code base.
0:09
Before we start using Claude Code
0:11
to write lots of code for us,
0:13
let's talk about how we can use this tool
0:16
to get up to speed on larger code bases.
0:19
Right here, I have an application where I can chat with Claude
0:23
about course materials from Deep Learning AI.
0:26
So let's try asking an outline of a course. For example, what
0:29
is the outline of the MCP Build Rich-Context AI Apps with Anthropic.
0:34
We'll see here that I'll get a
0:36
response with quite a bit of detail
0:38
around the lessons and descriptions for each of those lessons.
0:41
With that in mind, let's see how we can get
0:44
up to speed on the underlying code that powers this application.
0:48
Back in VS Code, I have
0:49
the terminal open here and I'm going
0:51
to hop into Claude Code just
0:53
by typing in claude and pressing enter.
0:55
In this application, I can start chatting with my codebase.
0:58
So I'm going to start with a high-level question just to
1:01
give me an overview of the codebase.
1:04
What we're going to see Claude Code do is agentically search
1:07
over the codebase, figure out some of the most important files
1:12
and give me a description of what's happening in this application.
1:15
Instead of searching through each individual file,
1:18
we're going to agentically search and find the most relevant ones.
1:21
So here we're going to get some information about
1:24
the architecture, the key components, some of the features,
1:28
and now if there are particular
1:30
things I want to dig into, I can easily do that.
1:33
I can also ask other higher level questions like how
1:36
are these documents processed?
1:38
In this application, we're using Retrieval Augmented Generation
1:42
to fetch information about these courses.
1:45
If I want to get more information about that process,
1:48
I can ask a question like this one.
1:50
We like to say that Claude Code is a fantastic
1:52
engineer alongside you,
1:54
but it's an even better explainer.
1:56
So as you're getting up to speed with new codebases,
1:59
new data sets. First, start using Claude Code
2:02
as a way to explain things to you,
2:04
so that when you ask it to write code,
2:06
you can have a better understanding of what's going on.
2:09
Here we can see the sources in the
2:12
code base that are actually splitting text into chunks,
2:15
that are adding lesson context and that are storing course metadata.
2:18
This ability to quickly get up to speed with a code base,
2:22
especially when you might not be
2:24
familiar with the underlying technology or language,
2:27
is exceptionally valuable. Instead of
2:29
navigating to each of these folders and figuring out what's going on,
2:34
we can ask more specific questions and even get diagrams
2:38
and visualizations made for us.
2:41
So the first thing I'll ask Claude
2:43
is to trace the process of handling a user's query
2:47
from front end to back end.
2:50
You can imagine you might have some limited knowledge
2:53
in one of the parts of the stack or
2:55
you're not familiar with how this is all happening.
2:58
So Claude Code is going to
2:59
give us quite some useful information here.
3:02
What's useful when you're seeing Claude Code work
3:04
is its ability to give you a bit of a to-do list,
3:07
so you can start to understand
3:09
what's happening. At any point in time,
3:12
you can press escape and guide Claude Code
3:15
to follow a different set of to-dos,
3:17
but in this case, I feel pretty good about what it's doing.
3:20
It's going to start tracing from the frontend, start following API endpoints,
3:24
analyze our Retrieval Augmented Generation system,
3:28
and then figure out how to actually generate the response.
3:31
It's reading the appropriate files that are handling these particular tasks
3:36
and finishing up its list to give us a powerful summary.
3:39
As we're in this environment,
3:41
we can stay within VS Code or open
3:43
up Claude Code in its own dedicated terminal instance.
3:47
That's completely up to you as you're working in this application.
3:50
Once it's done, we can see a
3:52
very detailed path for what's happening here.
3:55
Not only can I read each of these step-by-step,
3:58
I can even ask Claude to write this to a file,
4:00
but I'm seeing in quite a bit
4:02
of detail what's happening on the front end
4:04
with some JavaScript, what happens once that reaches my back end,
4:07
what the Retrieval Augmented Generation system is doing,
4:11
how I'm generating a response. Finally,
4:14
how I'm searching through my vector database,
4:16
how I'm filtering what's necessary, getting a response back,
4:20
and then finally, sending that to the user.
4:23
There's a lot that's going on in this application.
4:25
And I can use Claude to
4:26
dive deeper into any of those pieces.
4:29
But let's just say I learn best from visualizations.
4:32
So let's ask Claude to draw a diagram
4:34
that illustrates this flow.
4:37
We can ask Claude to draw diagrams
4:39
for web visualizations. We can ask for ASCII art.
4:43
But let's see what Claude comes up with
4:44
with its own intelligence and knowledge of how the application works.
4:49
So let's see what Claude code has come up with.
4:51
We've got a really nice diagram here
4:53
showing us the step-by-step process.
4:55
So it can't create these visual diagrams.
4:58
We could always ask it to use some something like D3.js
5:01
or recharts if we want something like a web application.
5:05
But we can see right here, we've got a really nice diagram.
5:08
From the front end, making a request to the back end,
5:11
calling the necessary functions,
5:13
generating the response necessary if there's any history involved,
5:18
talking directly to the large language model
5:21
with our system prompts and our tools and a query,
5:23
figuring out where to go next,
5:25
searching through our vector database using Chroma DB, getting back results
5:29
formatting that, sending it to the model to produce a final response.
5:34
There's quite a bit of detail that goes into this.
5:37
And if we want, we can even augment Claude with additional tools
5:41
for generating the visualizations that we want.
5:44
But out of the box, just getting this information quickly and efficiently
5:48
is going to help us get up to speed with this
5:50
codebase in a fraction of time that we used to spend.
5:54
So with that in mind, let's ask a
5:56
very simple question, how do I run
5:58
this application? You might be in a situation
6:00
where there's a new technology here, a new idea.
6:03
Very simply, it's nice to just
6:05
know how to get up and running.
6:07
I can see here, my API documentation,
6:09
my web interface, and if there are any environment variables I need,
6:13
I'm good to go. Now that you've gotten an idea
6:16
of how to just start talking to Claude Code.
6:18
Let's talk a little bit about some of the more powerful features
6:20
with Claude Code.
6:22
When you start working with an application in Claude Code,
6:25
one of the first things we
6:26
recommend you do is run a command
6:28
called /init.
6:29
You can see here in Claude Code, when I add this slash,
6:33
we have a list of many built-in commands that I can use.
6:36
/init allows me to initialize
6:38
a CLAUDE.md file with the codebase documentation.
6:42
The CLAUDE.md file is mission critical
6:45
for introducing memory for Claude Code,
6:48
so that it knows how best to work in your codebase.
6:52
The CLAUDE.md file is very useful
6:54
for specifying how you want things to be run.
6:57
This could be your tests, this could be your linting,
6:59
and any long-term memory that you want Claude to have
7:03
each time you're working with Claude Code for this particular project.
7:07
Instead of making this from scratch, /init
7:09
is going to analyze the codebase
7:11
to figure out at a high level what it should know about
7:14
each time you're working with this application.
7:18
There are three different CLAUDE.md files that you can make,
7:21
like the one generated with /init
7:23
all the way here on the left.
7:26
This CLAUDE.md file lives in your application. You can
7:29
have many of them in nested sub folders.
7:32
But this is shared with other
7:34
engineers and committed to your version control.
7:37
Another option is if you have personal instructions
7:39
and customizations, think specific for your editing environment
7:42
and terminal environment, you can put that in a CLAUDE.local.md file.
7:49
This is git ignored and not shared with other engineers.
7:53
Finally, in your home directory, in the
7:55
.claude folder, you can add a CLAUDE.md
7:57
and you can think of this like a
7:59
global claude.md for all projects on your machine.
8:03
This is helpful if you want Claude to follow instructions across
8:07
a wide range of projects that you build with Claude Code.
8:17
We can go ahead and allow Claude Code to find different
8:20
files so that it knows how best to create this CLAUDE.md file.
8:24
This CLAUDE.md file is meant to be
8:26
added to your current git project and
8:29
shared with other team members.
8:31
As more individuals work on the codebase,
8:34
they can add to this CLAUDE.md file,
8:36
and you can even nest CLAUDE.md files
8:39
in subdirectories if you need
8:41
more specific instructions for things like the backend
8:44
or frontend or our docs that we have here.
8:46
What's really nice about using a tool
8:49
like Claude Code with Visual Studio Code,
8:51
is that as I see changes to files,
8:54
I can see those visually in my editor.
8:56
And anytime that I am using a tool in Claude Code,
9:00
it's going to ask me for permissions.
9:02
This mission critical human in the loop is really important
9:05
when you get up and running,
9:07
and if you don't need Claude to ask you every single time,
9:10
can always use this second option. We'll
9:12
go ahead and auto accept those edits
9:14
and we'll see that a CLAUDE.md file has been created for us.
9:18
To give you a quick walk through,
9:21
we can see it's given us a
9:23
project overview, key technologies, an architectural overview,
9:26
a nice little diagram here, some core components.
9:29
and much more. If we want things to change
9:32
to this particular CLAUDE.md, we can easily do so.
9:35
As it continues searching the codebase,
9:37
it makes additional edits here to my CLAUDE.md
9:40
and gives me a summary of what's been done.
9:43
When I'm using a tool like Claude Code in VS Code,
9:46
I have the ability to specify which
9:48
file I'm in and even get information
9:49
about particular lines.
9:52
To set this up, I'm going to use the /ide command.
9:55
and I can see right here
9:57
that I'm connected with Visual Studio Code.
9:58
Now that I'm in Visual Studio Code, we can see right here
10:01
that the second that I visit a file,
10:04
it's tagged right here for what's going on.
10:06
This gives Claude Code the right context
10:08
for which file I'm in and if there are questions
10:11
I have about that file, it makes it easier
10:13
for Claude Code to identify that.
10:15
If I ever want to make any changes
10:17
to my CLAUDE.md file, I can manually write that if I'd like.
10:20
Or I can use a handy command
10:22
to go ahead and use this pound key
10:24
and directly add to memory.
10:26
So I'm just going to say here, always use UV.
10:29
to run the server, do not use pip directly.
10:32
This is a package manager in the Python ecosystem
10:35
and I want to make sure that Claude doesn't get confused.
10:37
When I use this shortcut, we can see there are different places
10:41
where this memory can be saved.
10:42
We mentioned there is the Project memory
10:45
that is included in git for everyone on your team to use.
10:48
We have local memory that is gitignored
10:51
but just useful for you as the developer.
10:53
and then User memory that is applicable
10:56
to all projects you use with Claude Code.
10:59
For this one, I'll just go ahead and update the project memory.
11:02
I can see here, I've made that change.
11:04
And if I look in my CLAUDE.md, I'll see right here,
11:07
I have some mentions to using UV
11:10
to make sure that I'm doing that correctly.
11:12
If I want to be more specific, I can also say,
11:15
make sure to use UV to manage all dependencies.
11:19
I'll add this to my CLAUDE.md and
11:21
we'll see right here that it's been added.
11:23
If I take a quick look at this particular file,
11:26
we can see any mention of dependencies now includes UV.
11:39
We spoke a little bit about some of the commands
11:41
that are built into Claude Code like /emit.
11:45
There are a couple other useful
11:46
ones that I want to showcase here.
11:48
And in fact, we're going to see later on
11:50
in this course, we can even make our own.
11:52
One of the first ones I
11:53
want to walk you through is /help.
11:54
This shows me right off the bat a quick description
11:58
of all the commands. and a quick summary.
12:00
This is useful as you're getting up to speed with Claude code.
12:04
The next one I want to showcase is a command called /clear.
12:07
What this allows you to do is
12:10
clear the conversation history and start from scratch.
12:13
This is very helpful as you shift gears and build new features.
12:17
This allows you to clear the context window and start fresh.
12:20
If you want to continue the conversation,
12:23
have a smaller context window, but still
12:25
have a summary of what's been done,
12:28
we also have this command /compact
12:30
that allows you to clear the history, but keep a summary
12:33
so that you can build off with Claude having an idea
12:36
of what was done before.
12:38
One more useful command is the escape key that allows you
12:41
to get out of whatever command you're in.
12:43
So if I'm going and trying to do something like /compact
12:47
and I want to stop that process, I can always press escape.
12:50
If I start a process with Claude Code
12:52
to explain what is in the codebase.
12:55
If I want to stop that process, escape
12:57
will allow me to interrupt and continue, onwards.
13:00
So don't feel like you have to wait for
13:02
Claude Code if you're not getting what you need.
13:04
In the next lesson, we'll start using Claude Code to build features,
13:08
add to files, modify changes, and make sure
13:11
we're doing the right thing along the way.
13:14
Before we hop off, one last useful piece with
13:16
Claude Code is its ability to work with Git.
13:18
So I've made some small changes to this application,
13:21
and I want to add and commit these changes.
13:24
Instead of me manually have to write
13:26
the Git commands, write a descriptive commit message,
13:29
going to actually have Claude Code do that work for us.
13:32
And what's really nice is Claude Code's ability to add
13:35
and commit the necessary commands.
13:37
I'll go ahead and add this particular file,
13:39
not only commit, but you can see here,
13:42
I've got this really nice descriptive commit message.
13:44
That's incredibly useful as we start asking Claude Code
13:47
about historical changes with git.
13:49
and when we push this to GitHub and
13:51
other people are reading the changes
13:53
we made. So we'll add and commit
13:54
and the next lesson, we'll use Claude Code
13:57
to start writing lots of things for us.